,-----------.
|     :     | 
|    /|\    | strategoxt
|   / | \   | 
|  /  |  \  | stratego@cs.uu.nl
| /_\/_\/_\ | http://stratego-language.org
`-----------'

Description: 

  Stratego is a modular language for the specification of fully
  automatic program transformation systems based on the paradigm of
  rewriting strategies.

  In Stratego, basic transformation rules are expressed by means of
  labeled conditional rewrite rules. Exhaustively applying all rewrite
  rules in a collection of valid rules is often not desirable; a
  system of rules can be non-terminating, or, more frequently,
  non-confluent. The latter means that different outcomes of the
  normalization process are possible depending on the position of
  application and the selection of rules.  Therefore, it is necessary
  to have more control over the application of rules. In standard
  systems based on rewriting, normalization is controlled by a fixed
  default rewriting strategy. In such systems more control is achieved
  by encoding the desired strategy with additional rewrite rules that
  spell out a traversal over the abstract syntax tree and apply the
  transformations in the desired order.

  To control the application of transformation rules, Stratego
  provides a language for defining rewriting strategies based on
  primitives for sequential programming and abstract syntax tree
  traversal. A rewriting strategy selects a number of rules from the
  available rules and defines in what order these rules are applied to
  a program fragment. Thus, the separation of concerns between logic
  (transformation rules) and control is maintained.

  Transformation strategies can be defined generically, i.e.,
  parameterized with a rule selection or other strategy to apply. The
  language comes with a large library of generic strategies for syntax
  tree traversal and built-in data type manipulation. In particular,
  the library contains generic, language independent strategies for
  language processing such as substitution, unification, and bound
  variable renaming that are parameterized with the shape of the
  relevant language constructs. Strategies cannot only be used to
  combine rules into transformations, but can also be used inside
  rules to test applicability conditions and perform local
  transformations.

  Stratego specifications are compiled to C programs. Compiled
  specifications have built-in support for exchange of abstract syntax
  trees with other tools via the ATerm format. The Stratego
  distribution also provides a (prototype) interpreter for the
  language for rapid prototyping of specifications.

  Stratego is being applied in a wide variety of program
  transformation projects including a software improvement tool for
  Cobol programs (CobolX), a compiler for Tiger, a documentation
  generation tool for SDL, tools for grammar transformation, and a
  tool for deforestation of functional programs through the warm
  fusion algorithm (HSX). The StrategoCompiler is bootstrapped, i.e.,
  implemented in Stratego itself.

  The Stratego system has been available as free software since March
  1999. Since April 2000 the distribution is available from

    http://www.stratego-language.org

  Since December 2002, the Stratego distribution is integrated with
  the distribution of the XT package of transformation tools that
  combines a number of free tools to support program
  transformation. The package includes tools for generating tools such
  as pretty-printers from syntax definitions.
  
  For more information,

    http://www.stratego-language.org


Bug reports:

  stratego-bugs@cs.uu.nl


Copyright (C) 1998-2004 Eelco Visser

  This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
  modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
  License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
  version 2 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.

  This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
  but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
  MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
  Lesser General Public License for more details.

  You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
  License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
  Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307  USA
